W-22716456: Document maxIdle pooling profile behavior (#3424)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/tuning-pooling-profiles.adoc

----

The `maxPoolSize` setting specifies the maximum number of connections open to the database, and available to serve incoming requests.

== maxIdle Behavior

The `maxIdle` attribute controls the maximum number of Mule components that can sit idle in the pool. The limit is enforced by the pool's evictor on each sweep, so the idle count may transiently exceed `maxIdle` between sweeps before being trimmed back.

> A negative value removes the idle limit, but the pool is still bounded by `maxActive` unless `exhaustedAction` is `WHEN_EXHAUSTED_GROW` (in which case idle connections are truly unlimited). Setting `maxIdle=0` disables caching entirely — every returned component is destroyed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `maxIdle` attribute controls the maximum number of Mule components that can sit idle in the pool. The limit is enforced by the pool's evictor on each sweep, so the idle count may transiently exceed `maxIdle` between sweeps before being trimmed back.

A negative value removes the idle limit, but the pool is still bounded by `maxActive` unless `exhaustedAction` is `WHEN_EXHAUSTED_GROW`, in which case the number of idle components is unlimited. Setting `maxIdle=0` disables caching entirely, so every returned component is destroyed.

This example configures a pool that holds up to `20` active components, targets at most `10` idle, and waits for an available component when the pool is exhausted:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<pooling-profile maxActive="20" maxIdle="10"
exhaustedAction="WHEN_EXHAUSTED_WAIT" />
----
```
